Document Content Security Policy features (#1303)
contao/docs: docs/dev/framework/csp.md

`Content-Security-Policy` response header from within your templates, controllers and services.

## The `CspHandler`

Content Security Policies are applied via Contao's [Response Context][ResponseContext] concept. When CSP is enabled in
[the settings][CspPageSettings] of a website root a `CspHandler` instance will be added to the response context. You can 
access the `CspHandler` in your services like this for example:

```php
// src/ExampleService.php
namespace App;

use Contao\CoreBundle\Routing\ResponseContext\Csp\CspHandler;
use Contao\CoreBundle\Routing\ResponseContext\ResponseContextAccessor;

class ExampleService
{
    public function __construct(private readonly ResponseContextAccessor $responseContextAccessor)
    {
    }

    public function __invoke(): void
    {
        $responseContext = $this->responseContextAccessor->getResponseContext();

        if ($responseContext?->has(CspHandler::class)) {
            /** @var CspHandler $csp */
            $cspHandler = $responseContext->get(CspHandler::class);

            // Retrieve nonces, add sources, …
        }
    }
}
```

> The following describes the most important methods of the `CspHandler`. In many cases you will want to make these

Reviewer: You might want to do that in the code for app stuff. Maybe we should write something along the lines of "in case you are writing an extension you will most likely want to make these adjustments directly from within templates in order to give your users maximum flexibility..."?

Author: Not sure, does it really matter? It does not really matter if it's the App or an extension, imho. In both cases you will most of the time only need it in your templates, but also in both cases there might be use cases where you want to directly add sources in your controller for example.

Reviewer: Okay, but the info on "why" you would want to do that in the template and not in the controller is missing ;)

Author: Not sure what the answer to that is. Can you make a suggestion on how to word this differently then?

Reviewer: Done.

Author: I have shortened the wording a bit, wdyt?

Reviewer: Perfect, this can be merged :)

> adjustments directly from your templates though, rather than from within your controller for example. For this reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
adjustments directly from your templates though, rather than from within your controller for example. The reason for it being that if you do it from within templates, you can provide a lot more flexibility to your users. If e.g. a part of the template is not output, it also does not need any CSP information for it. Consequently
```

The method will automatically not return a nonce, if no source list had been set yet for the given directive (or its
fallbacks).
{{% /notice %}}

This nonce can then be added as a `nonce="…"` attribute to your `<script>` or `<style>` tag respectively.

### Adding Hashes

As mentioned in the previous section, any directives that affect JavaScript or CSS will automatically disallow any
inline scripts or inline styles. This also includes inline scripts via HTML attributes, e.g. `onclick="…"` or
`style="…"`. It is highly recommended to move these styles and scripts into files instead. However, if for some reason
this is not possible such inline scripts can still be allowed through [hashes][CSPHash]. A hash can be generated and
added to a directive for a specific inline script or style like this:

{{< tabs groupId="csp-methods" >}}
{{% tab name="PHP" %}}
```php
$cspHandler->addHash('style-src', 'display:none');
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Twig" %}}
```twig
{% do csp_hash('display:none') %}
<div style="display:none">
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="PHP Template" %}}
```php
<div style="<?= $this->cspInlineStyle('display:none') ?>">
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{% notice "note" %}}

> In order for inline styles to work in browsers that support CSP Level 3 you will also need to add `'unsafe-hashes'` to

Reviewer: The hint that this is taken care of for you if you  use `csp_hash()` in Twig or `cspInlineStyle()` in PHP templates is missing. Maybe the hint should go to the tabs themselves? You only need to take care of it in the PHP controller for example.

Author: Updated in fb4d9fc5f2c5050b2413c62b00b3af4cc5eb08bb
